# Baking Markup

A [recipe config](./recipe.xml) describes a tree of replacers.

Each replacer has a selector that matches content and contains 3 sections within its scope:

1. locally-scoped variables: buckets, counters, and the target text for this element when links to it are created
1. any replacers that are nested within the current one
1. what the matched element will be replaced with (can be empty, in which case the element is removed)


# Prototype

The recipe config file is language agnostic but this repository contains an XSLT implementation.

The [recipe config](./recipe.xml) + [to-xslt.xsl](./to-xslt.xsl) yields [autogenerated.xsl](./autogenerated.xsl)

Then, [autogenerated.xsl](./autogenerated.xsl) + [input.xhtml](./input.xhtml) yields [output.xhtml](./output.xhtml)


# Buckets and Counters

## Bucket

Buckets are declared inside a replacer scope,
items are added to it via the `<r:replacer move-to="...">` attribute,
and its contents is used via a `<r:dump-bucket>`.

**Aside:** declaring the bucket may be unnecessary. The declaration can be inferred.


## Counter

Counters are declared inside a replacer scope and they are
used within that replacer or in nested replacers via a `<r:dump-counter>`.

The `selector="..."` attribute defines when the counter is incremented.
It is automatically reset at the replacer scope.


## Link Text

Additionally, a `<r:link-text>` defines how links to this element should be formatted. 


# Nested Replacers

Replacers are nested which allows them to reuse the lexically-scoped counters and buckets.
As a result, the tree structure of the recipe follows the tree structure of the book.

A nested replacer has a selector that matches descendants of the parent replacer.
Additionally, a nested replacer may have a `move-to=".."` attribute which
defines which bucket the element should be moved into.



# The Resulting Structure

The definition of what is replaced by a replacer is any child 
element inside the replacer that is **not** one of the following:

- `<r:declare>`
- `<r:replacer>`


Usually, this is a `<r:this>` but it can be 0 or more elements (XHTML, `r:this`, `r:children`, ...)

- `<r:this>` is a shallow coppy of the selected element. All of the attributes from the original document are preserved.
- `<r:children>` is the hole where all of the children are injected.
- `<r:dump-counter name="...">` is replaced with the current value of the named counter.
- `<r:dump-bucket name="...">` is replaced with the current contents of the named bucket.
- `<r:link>` see the next section for more


# Linking

Automatically creating links still needs some work but for now the current method relies on a few patterns we use in books. We either need to link to a parent (an answer linking back to the exercise) or to a child (the exercise linking to the answer).

Therefore, an link to an exercise solution would look like this: `<r:link to="child" selector="*[data-type='solution']"/>`.

The contents of the link text is either autogenerated by an `<r:link-text>` definition on the link target (e.g. "Figure {ch}.{fig}")
or by what is inside the `<r:link>` element.

Every element may have an `<r:link-text>` definition but this is not necessary.

## Internal links

Content links to other pieces of content will replace the link text with the autogenerated link text (e.g. `<a href="#Figure_4_3"/>`).

### TODO: Other types of links

- ToC links to autogenerated pages
- Section headers when exercises are grouped by section

# Grouping Collated Elements

Answers at the end of the book are grouped by chapter. Exercises at the end of a chapter are sometimes grouped by which section they occurred in.

Grouping can be done by adding `group-by="*[@data-type='page']"` to `<r:dump-bucket>`.


# Unimplemented

- Updating the ToC with links to new sections
- Grouping exercises by section
- Index-generation